Quantum System Simulation and Machine Learning Analysis

This repository contains the complete workflow for simulating a quantum system, processing raw data, and applying machine learning algorithms to classify and obtain matrix elements. Below is a description of the files and how to use them.
Files in this Repository

    quantum_simulation.xmds
        Description: This XMDS file simulates the quantum system and generates raw data as output.
        Usage: Use XMDS2 to run the simulation and produce the raw data for further processing.
        Output: Raw data in a format readable by the Mathematica script.

    data_processing.nb
        Description: A Mathematica script to convert raw data from the XMDS simulation into CSV files suitable for machine learning applications.
        Usage: Open this file in Mathematica, execute the script, and generate the required CSV files.
        Output: CSV files containing formatted data for input into Python scripts.

    ml_classification.py
        Description: A Python script implementing machine learning algorithms to classify data from the quantum system simulation.
        Usage: Run this script after generating the CSV files to classify the data.
        Dependencies: Requires Python with libraries such as numpy, pandas, scikit-learn, and matplotlib.

    matrix_elements_reconstruction.py
        Description: A Python script to extract and compute the matrix elements of the quantum system using the classified data.
        Usage: Run this script after completing the classification step.
        Dependencies: Requires Python with libraries such as numpy, pandas, and scipy.

Workflow Overview

    Simulate the Quantum System:
    Use quantum_simulation.xmds with XMDS2 to simulate the quantum system and generate raw data.

    Convert Raw Data to CSV:
    Open data_processing.nb in Mathematica to process the raw data and save it as CSV files.

    Classify Data with Machine Learning:
    Run ml_classification.py to apply machine learning algorithms to classify the processed data.

    Obtain Matrix Elements:
    Execute matrix_elements_extraction.py to compute the matrix elements of the quantum system based on the classified data.

Prerequisites

    XMDS2: Install XMDS2 from here to run the simulation.
    Mathematica: Ensure you have Mathematica installed to execute the .nb script.
    Python Environment: Install Python and required libraries using the following command:

    pip install numpy pandas scikit-learn scipy matplotlib

How to Run the Code

    Clone this repository:

git clone https://github.com/yourusername/quantum-simulation-ml.git
cd quantum-simulation-ml

Run the XMDS simulation:

xmds quantum_simulation.xmds

Process raw data with Mathematica:

    Open data_processing.nb and run the notebook to generate CSV files.

Classify the data:

python ml_classification.py

Extract matrix elements:

    python matrix_elements_extraction.py

License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.
Contributions

Contributions and feedback are welcome! Please feel free to open issues or submit pull requests.
Contact

For any questions or further information, please contact:
Kaustav Mukherjee
Email: kaustav.kumar@gmail.com
GitHub: https://github.com/kaustav_ryd
